# Scaling & rating

Scaling methods allow to measure the psychophysical function, i.e., the function that relates physical attributes of the stimuli to sensory continua (e.g., sound level and perceived loudness)2. We can distinguish between two families of scaling methods: partition and ratio scaling. In a partition scaling experiment, participants are asked to divide a target physical dimension in perceptually equivalent intervals. The methods of ratio scaling and magnitude scaling produce a mapping from the sensory continuum to a numeric continuum. In a ratio estimation task, participants estimate numerically the ratio between the sensory magnitude of two stimuli. In a ratio production task, participants adjust the physical properties of a stimulus so that the ratio of its sensory magnitude to that of a reference stimulus equals a prespecified number. With magnitude estimation, participants assign a number to the sensory magnitude of the first presented stimulus, and estimate numerically the sensory magnitude of subsequent stimuli based on the number assigned to the first stimulus. With magnitude production, the sensory magnitude for a reference stimulus is assigned a numerical value, and the participant is asked to manipulate the physical properties of a new stimulus so that its sensory magnitude equals a given number. The rating method can be conceived as a variant of the magnitude estimation method : participants estimate the sensory magnitude by choosing an integer number within a prespecified range
